docs: add Stellar chain support RPC methods (#154)
WalletConnectFoundation/docs: wallet-sdk/chain-support/stellar.mdx

---
title: Stellar
description: "Overview of the Stellar JSON-RPC methods supported by Wallet SDK."
---

These are the methods that wallets should implement to handle Stellar transactions and messages via WalletConnect.

<Warning>
The Stellar RPC standard is a proposal still under review and specifications may change. Implementation details and method signatures are subject to updates.
</Warning>

## Network / Chain Information

| Item    | Form                                                                                                     |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CAIP-2  | `stellar:pubnet` OR `stellar:testnet`                                                                     |
| CAIP-10 | `stellar:pubnet:G…` — base32 StrKey account ID (56 chars, version byte `0x30`)                           |
| CAIP-19 | `stellar:pubnet/slip44:148` (XLM) or `stellar:pubnet/asset:{code}-{issuer}` (issued assets)              |

> The CAIP-2 reference `pubnet` matches the [Stellar CAIP-2 namespace draft](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/namespaces/blob/main/stellar/caip2.md). The network passphrase (`"Public Global Stellar Network ; September 2015"` for mainnet, `"Test SDF Network ; September 2015"` for testnet) is **not** the CAIP-2 reference — it is a separate signing-domain constant that wallets MUST bind into every signature (see [Signing semantics](#signing-semantics)).

Reviewer: what's this note? is this useful?

Author: Trimmed. Kept just the CAIP-2-reference-vs-network-passphrase distinction — it's a real implementer footgun (the signature binds the *passphrase*, derived from the chain, not the CAIP-2 reference) — and left the full detail to the Signing semantics section.

### Account format

Account IDs returned to the dApp are **CAIP-10 strings**, e.g.:

```plain
stellar:pubnet:GA5ZSEJYB37JRC5AVCIA5MOP4RHTM335X2KGX3IHOJAPP5RE34K4KZVN
```

Wallets MUST return the **G… StrKey** form (Ed25519 public key + CRC16 checksum, base32-encoded). Wallets MUST NOT return:

- Muxed account (`M…`) IDs — these require a separate spec (CAP-27) and are not universally supported.
- Pre-auth (`T…`) or signer-hash (`X…`) StrKey forms — these are not accounts.
- Raw 32-byte public keys without StrKey encoding.

### XDR encoding convention

All transaction payloads cross the wire as **base64-encoded XDR strings**, matching SDF's reference SDKs and Horizon's `/transactions?tx=…` parameter. Specifically:

- `stellar_signXDR` and `stellar_signAndSubmitXDR` accept and return a base64-encoded **`TransactionEnvelope`** XDR.
- The envelope's discriminant determines tx version: `ENVELOPE_TYPE_TX_V0`, `ENVELOPE_TYPE_TX`, or `ENVELOPE_TYPE_TX_FEE_BUMP`.
- Wallets MUST accept all three; wallets MAY emit signatures only on V1 and fee-bump envelopes (V0 is deprecated).

> ## Session Properties

Reviewer: why is this section called Session Properties? it only shows the session proposal, i dont see properties here

Author: Good catch — renamed to **Session Proposal**. It shows the proposal (`optionalNamespaces`), not `sessionProperties`.

A standard WalletConnect session proposal for a Stellar-enabled dApp:

```json
{
  "optionalNamespaces": {
    "stellar": {
      "chains": ["stellar:pubnet"],
      "methods": [
        "stellar_signXDR",
        "stellar_signAndSubmitXDR",
        "stellar_signMessage",
        "stellar_signAuthEntry"
      ],
      "events": ["accountsChanged", "chainChanged"]
    }
  }
}
```

| Property           | Optional methods            |
| ------------------ | --------------------------- |
| Sign transaction   | `stellar_signXDR`           |
| Sign a message     | `stellar_signMessage`       |
| Sign and Submit    | `stellar_signAndSubmitXDR`  |
| Soroban            | `stellar_signAuthEntry`     |

## RPC Methods

### stellar_signXDR

> Asks the wallet to attach a signature to a Stellar `TransactionEnvelope` and return the resulting envelope **without broadcasting it**. The dApp (or a relayer it trusts — e.g. pay-core's fee-payer) is responsible for submission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asks the wallet to attach a signature to a Stellar `TransactionEnvelope` and return the resulting envelope **without broadcasting it**. The dApp (or a relayer it trusts) is responsible for submission.
```

Author: Applied.

#### Example

```json
// Request
{
  "id": 2,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": "stellar_signAndSubmitXDR",
  "params": {
    "xdr": "AAAAAgAAAACz/ZNn8sJpz0r1A/8mO0wQVjEPFNG8mU3sk1Wk7TPxIQAAAGQAGYGzAAAA...",
    "chain": "stellar:pubnet",
    "account": "stellar:pubnet:GCZ73GTH6LBGTT2K6UB76JR3JQIKMMIPCTI3ZGKN5SJVLJ65GPYSCIBQ",
    "waitForInclusion": true
  }
}

// Response
{
  "id": 2,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "tx_hash": "3389e9f0f1a54f04a78fd09a7e0fc0d44f1eecbe8c33a3d56a39c8b46d2a8b48",
    "signedXDR": "AAAAAgAAAACz/ZNn8sJpz0r1...AAAAAEFNB7s=",
    "successful": true
  }
}
```

### stellar_signMessage

Asks the wallet to sign an arbitrary message under a Stellar account's Ed25519 key, **outside** the context of a Stellar transaction. This enables [SEP-10 web auth](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0010.md)-style sign-in flows and dApp session attestation.

To prevent a malicious dApp from getting a wallet to sign a payload that is also a valid transaction body, wallets MUST prepend a domain-separating prefix before signing:

```plain
sign(Ed25519, sha256("StellarMessage" || 0x00 || message))
```

> The literal byte string `"StellarMessage"` (14 bytes) followed by a `0x00` separator MUST be hashed alongside the message bytes. This matches the SEP-53 (in-draft) convention and ensures cross-context replay is impossible — a SEP-10 challenge transaction would never collide with a `stellar_signMessage` payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The literal byte string `"StellarMessage"` (14 bytes) followed by a `0x00` separator MUST be hashed alongside the message bytes. This matches the [SEP-53](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0053.md) convention and ensures cross-context replay is impossible — a SEP-10 challenge transaction would never collide with a `stellar_signMessage` payload.
```

Author: Applied the finalized SEP-53 algorithm here instead of the inline suggestion (per your general comment, which supersedes it): prefix is `"Stellar Signed Message:\n"` concatenated directly, **no** `0x00` separator and no length prefix.

{
  "id": 4,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "signedAuthEntry": "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",
    "signerAddress": "stellar:pubnet:GCZ73GTH6LBGTT2K6UB76JR3JQIKMMIPCTI3ZGKN5SJVLJ65GPYSCIBQ"
  }
}
```

## Events

| Event             | Payload                              | Notes                                                                                        |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `accountsChanged` | `{ accounts: string[] }` (CAIP-10)   | Emitted when the user changes the active account in their wallet, or revokes access for an account. |

> | `chainChanged`    | `{ chainId: string }` (CAIP-2)       | Reserved for future testnet support. Today, only `stellar:pubnet` is emitted.                |

Reviewer: what does "Reserved for future testnet support" mean?

Author: Reworded. Both networks are supported (`stellar:pubnet` and `stellar:testnet`), so `chainChanged` now describes switching the active network rather than "reserved for future testnet support".

import { TransactionBuilder, Networks } from "@stellar/stellar-sdk";

const { signedXDR } = await session.request({
  topic,
  chainId: "stellar:pubnet",
  request: { method: "stellar_signXDR", params: { xdr, chain, account } },
});

const tx = TransactionBuilder.fromXDR(signedXDR, Networks.PUBLIC);
const txHash = tx.hash().toString("hex"); // 64-char hex
```

**Inner hash vs. fee-bump hash.** When `stellar_signXDR` is used inside a fee-abstraction flow (the wallet signs an inner tx, a relayer wraps it in a `FeeBumpTransaction` before submitting), the hash the dApp computes from the inner tx (`H_inner`) is **not** the hash that lands on-chain (`H_fb`). Horizon resolves **either hash** to the same transaction record — a `GET /transactions/{hash}` request works whether you pass `H_inner` or `H_fb`, and both are exposed on the returned fee-bump record. For stable UX, prefer `H_fb` for explorer links once submission is confirmed; `H_inner` works as an immediate optimistic identifier between sign-time and submission. Note that Horizon will **404** on an `H_inner` lookup until the wrapping fee-bump transaction has been submitted and included in a ledger.

## Additional Resources

> - [WalletConnect Wallet SDK — Ethereum chain support](/wallet-sdk/chain-support/evm) — structural template for this document.

Reviewer: do we need this one?

Author: Removed — it was an authoring-meta note ("structural template for this document"), not a reader resource.

> - [WalletConnect Wallet SDK — Solana chain support](/wallet-sdk/chain-support/solana) — closest precedent for an Ed25519-based chain.

Reviewer: do we need this one?

Author: Removed for the same reason (the chain-support overview page already links all chains).

- [CAIP-2](https://chainagnostic.org/CAIPs/caip-2) and [CAIP-10](https://chainagnostic.org/CAIPs/caip-10) — chain and account identifiers.
- [Stellar CAIP-2 namespace draft](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/namespaces/blob/main/stellar/caip2.md).

> - [Stellar SEP-7](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0007.md), [SEP-10](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0010.md).

Reviewer: add SEP-53

Author: Added SEP-53 to the references.

> - [Freighter API reference](https://docs.freighter.app/docs/guide/usingFreighterWebApp).

Reviewer: what's this?

should we point [here](https://docs.freighter.app/mobile-walletconnect/mobile)?

Author: Repointed to the Freighter WalletConnect mobile docs you linked, and dropped the generic web-app API reference.
